---
layout: post
title:  "Fat2Fit Week 1"
date:   2015-11-23
img: avecto-kitchen.jpg
category: health & fitness
tags: [health, fitness, running, workout, exercise, routine, early morning, diet, food, weight, body fat]
---

Ok ok...so last week was a complete fail. It probably won't be the last time, but I'm calling this week as the new start of my fitness journey. Partly because I can't think of any other logical title for these type of posts.

I only went to the gym that one day last week when I posted about it. I did in fact wake up at 5am each other day with the aim of going to the gym. But then I would turn over and think to myself "just a few minutes" and next thing I knew it would be 2 hours later and I slept through all my other alarms. I need to find the willpower to just get out of bed straight away.

I almost did the same thing this morning. I woke up at 4.45, and then next time I looked it was 5.45. Last week if that happened I would have thought I didn't have time to get in a workout, but this morning I pushed myself and got up and out to the gym. New beginnings?

My plan for cardio days consists of three workouts, but as I only had an hour today I could only do two but that's better than nothing. I did day one of the 10k app and day 1 of a 6-week "time-crunched HIIT plan" on motivo.

This weeks stats are as follows:

* <strong>Weight:</strong> 264.3lbs (<span style="color: green;">- 5.2lbs</span>)
* <strong>Lean Weight: </strong>156.2lbs (<span style="color: red;">- 10.9lbs</span>)
* <strong>Body Fat (%):</strong> 40.9 (<span style="color: red;">+2.9%</span>)
* <strong>Body Fat (lbs): </strong>108.1 (<span style="color: red;">+ 5.7lbs</span>)
	
So even though I lost just over 5lbs in weight, the 3% increase in body fat % actually means that I gained fat. I do believe that fat content, and not weight, is more important in tracking when trying to lose weight (fat) which should really be obvious but to some people it isn't. However, I use the Withings wi-fi scale and I haven't found it to be that accurate when measuring body fat %, for example I could step on it two days in a row and there could be a +/- 3-4%difference. Which is a shame as it's the main reason I bought the scale so that I wouldn't have to keep going on the £1 a time body scales that can be found at gyms and pharmacies. However I believe it'll track better over a longer period of time than week to week or day to day, so hopefully in a few weeks time my body fat content will be measuring lower.